CV
Mahdi Farzam (DehghaniFarzam)
International Construction Practice & Law
Construction Project and Claim Management
Universität Stuttgart-Master of International Construction: Practice & Law
Specialized in International standard forms of Contract: FIDIC (ED.1999 & 2017), NEC 04/05
Common Law & Civil Law Jurisdictions, International Treaties, Contract Law, and Contract Management
Time and or Cost related-Claims, precedent conditions, Notice mechanism
Dispute resolution, Arbitration law (ICC, New York Convention)
University of UCSI-Bachelor of Civil Engineering with honors-UKStandard
CivilEngineering-Structural &BIM-Engineering
Buildingenvironment
Institute of Tehran-Construction Management OperationDiploma
Constructionsafety
in-situ and precastoperation
ead of Planning & Forensic Delay Department - Construction of Data Centers
Minimised the cost for external support, promoting in-house training and budget control.
Granted 3 successful extension of time and negotiated contractual milestone adjustments with the employer.
Advised the team on compliance and best practices of FIDIC mechanism and Golden Rules.
Trained the team on the practicality of Tender schedules and participation in  pre-construction phase.
Assigning available resources per project phase and ensuring the planners are aligned with Employment requirement.
Reviewing contracts and implementing strategies such as revised programme, appropriate delay methodologies, Base line
Standardizing the project reporting, processes and channel of information such as SOP, Share-point and project portfolios 
Claims & Risk Manager - Manufacture of Offshore Wind Turbine Foundation/mono-piles
Reviewed technical specification and PEP to advise the team on compliance and employment requirement.
Ensured production schedule and quality requirement adhered to specification and milestones.
Negotiated with the client on delayed milestones, issuing and drafting claim notices within allowable time.
Performed Forensic Delay Analysis for time/cost-related claims or in case of variations.
Project planning and scheduling- Project Management Consultancy
Performed schedule optimisation and revised the BL, leading to improvement in uptime and performance tracking
Conducted delay analysis to support extension of the time and the actual root cause of delays.
Project Control Manager
Managed pre-contractual performance planning, cost-budget impact assessment, budget progress (cash flow)analysis.
Aligned the team with other departments to developed a collaborative Master schedule to achieve contractual key dates.
Conducted planning procedure and standard reporting and applied the scrum-master methodology within the team.
Worked closely with the PM and CM contractual (FIDIC standrads) for applying necessary actions.
Claims & Delay Forensic Manager
Analysis of Prolongation, Disruptive and thickening claims for time and costs plus profit on behalf of the GC.
Applied delay analysis to identify effect on the programme and entitlement under rules of contract.
Mediated and supported with the DAB-FIDIC YB over disputes and advised on the program performance
Performed Schedule watch plans, key contractual date reports, progress, and cost status.
Project Planner
Carried out scheduling CPM, weather downtime, supplier delays, doc-revisions delay mitigation analysis.
Managed the integrated project schedule and structure it to allow review at a range of levels and details.
Reported suspension periods assigned in colander, and updated the schedule with real-time weather and yield tracking Project Scheduler
Created templates for tender and operation schedules- Documentation and resource logs.
Resource planning, cost planning and shared key dates to the operational team.
Assessment of critical activities and deadlines, regular updates, forecasts and revised schedule
Responsible for documentation revisions, maintenance of performance reports, and compilation of operations and costs.
